---
title: When Desires Are Hidden Behind Other Desires
---

# {{ page.title }}

One thing that I notice myself doing quite often is something I would describe as 'hiding my real desires behind some other desire'. It sounds vague and abstract, but the idea should become clearer with an example. The other day I was feeling dissatisfied with my life and I imagined living in a Japanese Zen Garden where I would do nothing but relax and garden all day long. However upon further inspection, I did not really want that at all. The reality of doing nothing but gardeing is so obviously unappealing to my actual interests that it was kind of absurd that I had even thought about this. What did I really want from that lifestyle? I enjoyed deliberating the idea of being a calm, stoic, relaxed person with simple desires. I was wanting to be somebody else.

I find it useful to question and pick apart various urges that come into my mind. The method I used above was to basically rationalise whether or not the desire was consistent with what I know about myself, and if not where did it come from?

Another method I really like to use is to imagine my thoughts as being generated out of some sort of self-interest. With that in mind, I can ask what is my incentive for having the thought. An example of this is I may consider pursuing some hobby that I know I do not particularly enjoy. Upon asking why I was thinking of doing this if not out of pleasure, I found that I had the end goal of sharing my work in the hopes of gaining positive feedback from others. With this knowledge in mind, I was able to think more clearly about how to achieve the goal in a more effective way, and even if the goal was worth pursuing in the first place.

One last thing I find I struggle with is in the seperation of my own intrinsic desires from extrinsic desires. I like to imagine that I have two voices that generate thoughts and desires in my mind, one that represents myself and one that represents others. And then I imagine the desire in complete isolation from other people (or as much as possible). For example, I recently considered pursuing a job in a large tech company. So, I imagined nobody knowing about my new job, and there being no acknowledgment from others in regards to it, not getting any more or less compensation/perks/prestige than I do right now. I just imagine the job itself, in total isolation. And then I imagine the desire in complete isolation from myself. I imagine only the extrinsic motivators, the good stuff that surrounds the job, but not the job itself. The money, prestige, praise from others, free food, perks. And then I can think about which side appeals to me the *most*, and it is usually pretty obvious what was my biggest motivation for some desire.

It is important to be careful with this however, as it is very easy to fool yourself or come across some cases where some aspect of the desire seems to be both intrinsic and extrinsic. To go back to the above example, the coworkers at the company could both be an intrinsic and extrinsic desire. I may want to work at the company because I will enjoy being surrounded by coworkers who are more like myself. This seems to be extrinsic, but I also do not work in isolation from others. The intrinsic enjoyment of my work will be dependent on the quality of my coworkers, so good coworkers are also indirectly an intrinsic desire. In these edge cases, I will group the desire into the side which I think is strongest. So in this case, I found the coworkers most appealing to my sense of belonging, so I labelled it as an extrinsic desire. I don't quite know if this is the best way to deal with these cases, but it works well enough for me. It is important to notice these cases, as incorrect labelling can result in distorted decision making.

I guess it does raise the question of how much one should weigh intrinsic/extrinsic motivators when making a decision. Ideally, intrinsic motivators should be greater than or equal to extrinsic, but lord knows that is an anomaly for me.
